You've now seen all the core Syntex of Julia language.
There are a couple of things left, but we'll get to them when we need them.
So now we are in the position to go ahead and do some actual data science and machine learning using
the concepts that we've learned.
So let's start off with one of the most interesting aspects of data science, which is prodding.
If you're familiar with Python and matplotlib, you would know that matplotlib syntax is a little wonky.
But here we have a very clean syntax and semantics of plotting.
So in this video, we are going to take a look at that.
What you first want to do is install the plots package, which is essentially the interface to all the
plotting.
And Julia, I've already done that.
So I'm not going to run this cell after that.
You need to do using plot and then you can create some very simple plots using the plot function.
When you run this, you will notice that the first time you tried to do a plot, it's going to take
a little bit of time.
The reason for that is Julia does all the compilations necessary to speed it up later on.
So the first plot is going to take a little bit of time.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So you call the plot function.
The first parameter is the function that should be plotted and the second is the range on the x axis
from where it should start.
So from minus two PI to Dubai.
So this is the range for which the plot is going to be created for us.
So we run that and wait for it to do the pre compilation and get everything ready.
So this is going to take a couple of seconds and then you see the plot.
So as you can see, this looks really clean.
Very nice plot out of the box, much prettier than the Metalocalypse defaults.
Now, because this sign is a function, we can also posit an anonymous function, which can be a lot
more complicated.
So you can say a function which takes one parameter, which is going to be each individual value for
the X axis, and it's going to plot the sine square X and cost cubed X it together so you can do any
sort of complex function plotting using this index.
So this looks really nice.
Obviously, when you do real well plotting, you're going to be interested in some data and we'll get
to that in the next video.
For now, let's take a look at some of the other Syntex details so you can give it the label, you can
give it the X label, Y label and the title.
So when you do that, you will see that the label for the negative log function that we are plotting
goes in the legend.
So minus log X goes over, their Y label is set using the available argument and X label using the label.
So this works out really well.
So this minus log X is very useful when you do machine learning and classification.
So that's why I just wanted to plot this.
OK, so this shows you the details of the plotting library in its basics.
Now let's go ahead and plot some specific values.
So, for instance, we are going to have X go from one to 10.
So this is range and Y values are going to be just ten random values.
OK, so let's go ahead and do that.
So we have Y and X values out.
We can go ahead and plot Y one using plot X, comma Y, one common level is going to Vivan.
This is going to do the plot for the values that we have over here.
If we want to add another line to this, we can use the bank variant of the plot function.
So if you recall, bang means it's going to do some sort of a modification and the modification is going
to be on this plot.
So this second plot function with a bang is going to modify the plot by inserting the second series
onto it.
So if this seems too verbose for you, there is an easier way to do this.
So you can say plot X and for Y axis, you can give it a collection of elements.
Right.
So to erase each holding the values that you want to plot and you can give them both a label, which
we are setting as first and second over here and notice that there is no comma in between.
So this is kind of a vector.
And the reason for that is because typically when you're working with vectors, it's much easier.
Obviously, Julia is still under development.
So this might change, but this is as it stands at the moment.
OK, so we have the same plot over here.
We can convert this into a scatterplot by setting the series type as call and scatter.
If you recall, this is a symbol and you don't have to enclose it in double Gord's.
It works out just as a symbol.
OK, so you do the plot and this is what it looks like.
It's a Y one.
Why do the colors?
I am not really fond of the particular values over here so we can go ahead and change them so we can
change the Tichnor scaling to zero point seven and we can go ahead and change the passages two point
eight.
And to me it looks a lot cleaner this way.
OK, finally, we can go ahead and do a lot of plotting so we can have four different cities and we
can pass them to the plot function and we can set the palette as doc to underscore five.
And that gives you this guy over here.
So it depends on which color palette you're interested in.
We have a detailed list of pilots over here that you can go check them out.
Similarly on this link, you can go ahead and check all the different attributes that are available
for the plot function.
There is a lot to unpack over here, but this is the basic.
And this can get you started.
We want to move on to more interesting things, and I encourage you to go ahead and follow these links
and explore the different options that are available.
In the next video, we are going to take a look at loading some data and then working with that data
instead of plotting some random values.